---
layout: post
title:  "picotm 0.13.0 released"
author: Thomas Zimmermann
date:   2018-11-11 20:45:00 +0100
tags:   [picotm release]
---

Version [0.13.0][picotm_0_13_0] of picotm has been released today. The
new version is distributed un der the terms of the [GNU Lesser General
Public License, version 3 or later][license:lgplv3]. It adds support for
locales, time/string formatting and parsing, and pointer-specific module
data.

<!-- excerpt -->

Here's a full list of new features and bug fixes.

 - License change: picotm and its modules are now distributed under
   the terms of the [GNU Lesser General Public License, version 3 or
   later][license:lgplv3]. Test programs and scripts are distributed
   under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 3 or later.
 - Time/string conversion: The libc module now provides the `strftime()`
   and `strptime()` interfaces from `<time.h>`.
 - Locale support: The libc module now provides support for locale
   interfaces. This includes `setlocale()` from ISO and `locale_t`
   from POSIX.
 - Module-independent pointer-state: The new ptrdata module provides
   global and thread-local pointer state. Modules can attach state
   data to a memory address, or retrieve attached state. The locale
   implementation uses these facilities.
 - Mandate stricter error checking during build and in build scripts.
   The build scripts now compile all source code with `-Wall -Werror`
   flags.
 - Bug fix: Treemap look-up operations for non-existent entries do no
            longer result in undefined behavior but return a default
            value.

picotm 0.13.0 is available for download on the GitHub
[release page][picotm_0_13_0].

[license:lgplv3]:   https://www.gnu.org/licenses/
[picotm_0_13_0]:    https://github.com/picotm/picotm/releases/tag/v0.13.0
