---
layout: post
title:  "picotm 0.12.0 released"
author: Thomas Zimmermann
date:   2018-04-27 12:00:00 +0200
tags:   [picotm release]
---

Version [0.12.0][picotm_0_12_0] of picotm has been released today. It
adds support for Unix signals. Receiving a signal during a transaction
results in a roll-back and recovery of the receiving transaction.
Modules can now be disabled at compile time, or replaced by alternative
implementations.

<!-- excerpt -->

Here's a full list of new features and bug fixes.

 - Optional modules: Modules can now be disabled at compile time. With
   this change, platforms that don't provide all of the required features
   can still be supported to some extend. Users can also disable a module
   and provide an alternative implementation instead. By default, all
   modules are enabled.
 - Transaction-aware signal handling: The new signal component of the
   libc module adds support for Unix signals. Transactions that receive
   a signal will jump to recovery. With this new feature application
   errors, such as segmentation faults or divisions by zero, can be
   handled in a coordinated way.
 - Errors during casts or arithmetic operations are now recoverable.
 - The license of the libc module's fileid.{c,h} has been fixed to MIT.
 - Improved documentation.
 - Bug fix: Generator scripts for the release tarball now create a
            buildable package.

picotm 0.12.0 is available for download on the GitHub
[release page][picotm_0_12_0].

[picotm_0_12_0]:    https://github.com/picotm/picotm/releases/tag/v0.12.0
