---
layout: post
title:  "picotm 0.11.0 released"
author: Thomas Zimmermann
date:   2018-02-27 17:00:00 +0100
tags:   [picotm release]
---

Version [0.11.0][picotm_0_11_0] of picotm has been released today. It
includes support for safe type casting and arithmetics. Overflows or
underflows of the destination type's range, or division-by-zero errors
result in the rollback of the transaction. [Cate][post:20180221] is now
the official mascot of the picotm project.

<!-- excerpt -->

Here's a full list of new features and bug fixes.

 - Cate: Cate is now the official mascot of the picotm project.

 - Safe type casting: The type-casting module provides safe type casting
   between C types. Overflows and underflows of the destination type's
   range result in a rollback of the transaction.

 - Safe arithmetics: The arithmetics module provides safe addition,
   subtraction, multiplication and division for C types. Overflows,
   underflows or division-by-zero errors result in the rollback of
   the transaction.

 - Improved documentation

 - Reworked module interface: The new module interface allows for better
   sharing of a module's call-back function. Further led to cleanups of
   internal data structures and a reduced size of the log entries.

 - Bug fix: Doxygen now generates the documentation for errors involving
            `kern_return_t` Mac OS correctly. (#239)

 - Bug fix: Fix memory handling in the TM module that resulted in
            inconsistent commits. (#240, #241)

picotm 0.11.0 is available for download on the GitHub
[release page][picotm_0_11_0].

[picotm_0_11_0]:    https://github.com/picotm/picotm/releases/tag/v0.11.0
[post:20180221]:    {% post_url 2018-02-21-welcome-cate %}
